URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/artists/35-arik-levy/overview/
Snapshot: 20251205085155

View works.
VIEW WORKS
Arik Levy
centers the dynamic relationships between nature, humanity, and society in his artistic production. His sculptures and installations are inspired by natural forms, exploring elements such as minerals, rocks, liquids, and solids, as well as human connections. These works transcend mere aesthetic objects, reflecting the intrinsic processes of nature and the structural components of human relationships. Levy emphasizes that the world is built upon human interactions, going beyond objects and forms, situating his art within a sociological context.
Adopting an interdisciplinary approach, Levy works across a wide range of fields, from design to set decorations, sculptures to wearable technologies. The artist creates a dialogue between minimalist forms and multidimensional geometries by merging his technical knowledge and poetic sensibility. During his time in Japan, he developed ideas that led him to create set designs for performance fields such as contemporary dance and opera. Later, he focused on art, industrial design, and architectural projects through his studio. Working in diverse areas, from public sculptures to multifunctional environmental designs, Levy positions his art as both a visual and intellectual space, stating, “Life is a system of signs and symbols.”
Arik Levy was born in 1963 in Tel Aviv. After studying at Art Center Europe in Switzerland, he graduated with distinction from the Industrial Design Department in 1991. Levy lived in Japan for some time, where he solidified his ideas and exhibited products and artworks before returning to Europe. His works have been exhibited in locations and events such as the Saint-Paul de Vence Biennale (France), Naples Botanical Gardens (USA), Shenzhen Bay Boning Gardens (China), The Baker Museum (USA), Somerset House (UK), and Saatchi Gallery (UK). Levy’s designs, created in collaboration with renowned brands like Baccarat, Swarovski, Ligne Roset, Vitra, and Hennessy, have received prestigious awards including the Archiproducts Design Award, Designer Kitchen & Bathroom Lifetime Achievement Award, Red Dot Award, Good Design Award, and EDIDA.
Arik Levy lives and works in Paris and St-Paul-de-Vence.
Download Artist's CV
(PDF, opens in a new tab.)