URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/exhibitions/88-refik-anadol-wim-delvoye-ali-elmaci-pilevneli-yalikavak/overview/
Snapshot: 20230920045111

TARIK TÖRE
Kalbin iştahı / Crave de coeur I, 2023
VIEW WORKS
"REFİK ANADOL , WIM DELVOYE, ALİ ELMACI, DEFNE TESAL , TARIK TÖRE , YUŞA YALÇINTAŞ"
PILEVNELI | YALIKAVAK
PİLEVNELİ is pleased to announce its group exhibition in Yalıkavak, Bodrum! The exhibition brings together a diverse range of works from PİLEVNELİ artists, showcasing sculptures, paintings, and artificial intelligence sculptures. The exhibition presents various perspectives by gathering 8 artists that embodies diverse practices.
Refik Anadol showcases his work titled "California Landscapes”, which he created using data and algorithms. In contrast to Anadol's futuristic body of work, Wim Delvoye combines contemporary art with historical references inspired of the Gothic art.
Ali Elmacı, approaches his contemporary surroundings with a dramatic irony, by "depicting the ugly”, so he says. In his practice, Elmacı offers a contemporary interpretation of classical canvas painting style by critiquing subjects such as power, media, authority, societal norms, and popular culture.
Defne Tesal's two paintings in the exhibition are based on cyclic, rhythmic, fluid, and static movements that counter the constant and forward pace of our time. Tesal's repetitive movements lead the viewer to a new emotional experience.
Tarık Töre, draws his inspiration from the stacked graffiti art style that exists anonymously on walls and Töre refers to thoughts that also exist as anonymous and unclear in our minds. By depicting humane subjects such as terror, threat, sense of home, and dream through painting, he allows these subjects to exist on paper, just as they exist in our minds.
Finally, Yuşa Yalçıntaş, depicting an unrealistic world from a child’s perspective, presents his range of practice which was inspired by his time in boarding school.
The group exhibition featuring a total of 8 artists can be visited at PILEVNELİ Yalıkavak everyday except for mondays, until September 17, 2023, between 12:00 - 21:00.
RELATED ARTISTS
REFİK ANADOL
WIM DELVOYE
ALİ ELMACI
DEFNE TESAL
TARIK TÖRE
YUŞA YALÇINTAŞ
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Tumblr
Email
BACK TO PAST EXHIBITIONS