URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/artists/65-banu-anka/overview/
Snapshot: 20260615022814

View works.
VIEW WORKS
Banu Anka
presents an artistic practice that deeply questions the concepts of individual identity search and social belonging in her works. In her studies, she focuses on the interactions between the subject and the object, centering on the relationships the individual establishes with the “other.” Drawing inspiration from ancient traditions, her portraits address the connections between an individual’s inner world and external perceptions, while making the effects of social codes on the individual visible. In this context, the artist’s works offer a narrative about both individual and collective experiences.
In the artist’s production, the face and body are approached not only as aesthetic forms but also as reflections of identity and belonging. In her portraits, the connection between the person and the “other” is established through facial expressions and gazes. The works make visible the processes of understanding others while the individual questions their own identity. The metaphorical elements in Anka’s paintings allow us to reinterpret the individual’s inner conflicts within a social context.
Banu Anka questions the nature of the surface of painting while working with photographic realism and manipulating depth perception by playing with the surface itself. In her works, she blends traditional techniques with contemporary forms of expression, using charcoal and oil paint. By employing two distinct techniques—oil on canvas and charcoal on paper—her works invite the viewer to reflect on both individual and societal dynamics. This technical variety creates a language in Anka’s work that questions and critiques the relationship between depth and surface.
Born in 1982 in Iran, Banu Anka graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Painting from Tehran University of Art in 2009. She studied Painting and Art History at the Toronto ACS Academy in 2013. Later, in 2018, she completed her master’s degree in Painting under the supervision of Ergin İnan at Yeditepe University. Anka’s works have been exhibited in solo and group exhibitions that began in Tehran and Istanbul and have expanded to the international arena. The artist gained recognition in the art world by winning the Peace for Art Festival Award in Iran in 2015.
Banu Anka, lives and works in Istanbul.
Download Artist's CV
(PDF, opens in a new tab.)