URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/news/14/
Snapshot: 20260415222507

“One Minute Forever”, Erwin Wurm’s first solo exhibition in Serbia, takes place at the Museum of Contemporary Art Belgrade until August 9, 2022. Shedding light on the artist’s career from 1990s and onwards and curated by Maja Kolariç and Jerome Sans, the retrospective includes works such as the “Narrow House”, “Fat Car”, “Fat House”, as well as Wurm’s abstract and performative sculptures.
Erwin Wurm’s first exhibition at PILEVNELI will take place during fall in 2022.
Born in 1954, Wurm completed his education at the Graz University in 1977 and Gestaltungslehre University of Applied Arts and Academy of Fine Arts in 1982.
Erwin Wurm is known for his sculptural works that approach formalism with absurd and paradoxic compositions. Wurm creates his language and compositions through clothes, furniture, houses or everyday objects while criticizing the Western world and mentality, specifically the perception of society and everyday lifestyle post-World War II. Throughout his career of more than 30 years, Wurm redefines and expands the perception and meaning of sculpture, space and human form, depicting in his works familiar objects in unusual situations. In Wurm’s works, mundane and daily decisions are being questioned while seeking the answers to conceptual and existential questions. He questions how people define themselves through objects they use in their daily lives.
Erwin Wurm lives and works in Vienna and Limberg in Austria.
Erwin Wurm’s works are acquired by many prestigious collections including MoMA (USA), Berkeley Art Museum (USA), Rockford Art Museum (USA), Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum (USA), Judith Rotschild Foundation (USA), Berlinische Galerie (Germany), Kunsthalle Bremen (Germany), Museum Ludwig (Germany), Museum für Moderne Kunst (Germany), Sammlung Deutsche Bank (Germany), Städel Museum (Germany), Albertina (Austria), Kunsthaus Bregenz (Austria), MONA (Australia), National Gallery of Victoria (Australia), Centre Pompidou (France), Musée d’Art Contemporain de Lyon (France), National Museum of Art (Japan), Tate Modern (UK), Fundación ARCO (Spain), Kunsthaus Zürich (Switzerland) and Elgiz Museum (Turkey).
April 16, 2022
PREVIOUS
|
Next
115
of 130