URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/artists/47-tobias-rehberger/overview/
Snapshot: 20251205092117

View works.
VIEW WORKS
Tobias Rehberger
stands out as an artist who questions the dynamic nature of perception and focuses on themes of transformation and discontinuity. His works transcend traditional classifications of art, blurring the interdisciplinary boundaries between architecture, design, and sculpture. Rehberger frequently employs techniques such as “dazzle camouflage” in his works, disrupting the shapes and boundaries of objects with optical illusions. This technique references camouflage designs used during World War I to visually deceive ships and invites the viewer to explore the illusions in spatial and object perception. His approach emphasizes that the art object is not only an aesthetic experience but also a perceptual one.
The artist differentiates his works across sculpture, installation, painting, and architecture with elements like transformation, chance, and dialogue. His production spans a wide range, from minimal interventions to large-scale public sculptures. Rehberger’s futuristic installations create a radical new experience, offering an interactive world for the audience. As seen in his works, including neon signs, Velcro lamps, and vase sculptures, he invites the viewer to become part of the experience through art created with unconventional and “unblessed” materials.
In Rehberger’s sculptures and installations, the relationship between function and aesthetics plays a significant role. In his
Porträtgefäße
(Vase Portraits) series, he transforms the functional object of a vase, combining personal stories and aesthetic preferences to give it both a decorative and conceptual dimension. Additionally, in works such as Infection, by using Velcro, cables, and industrial materials, he turns sculptures into both mechanical and organic forms. These works translate the physical properties of materials into an aesthetic language.
Born on June 2, 1966, in Esslingen, Tobias Rehberger studied at the Städelschule in Frankfurt, where he was a student of Thomas Bayrle and Martin Kippenberger. Recognized as one of the most significant German artists of his generation, Rehberger has been teaching in the Sculpture Department at Städelschule since 2001.
Awarded the Golden Lion at the 53rd Venice Biennale for his work
Was du liebst, bringt dich auch zum weinen
, Rehberger’s works have been exhibited in major venues including Fondation Beyeler (Switzerland), MACRO Museum (Italy), Stedelijk Museum (Netherlands), Fondazione Prada (Italy), Tate Liverpool, and Whitechapel Gallery (UK).
Tobias Rehberger continues his life and work in Frankfurt and Berlin.
Download Artist's CV
(PDF, opens in a new tab.)