URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/news/126-arik-levy-and-nevin-aladag-at-sammlung-pohl/
Snapshot: 20260516045250

Photo by Bernhard Strauss
Located in Marburg, Germany, Sammlung Pohl presents the exhibition
Konstellationen. Werke aus der Sammlung Pohl von Jean Arp bis heute
(
Constellations. Works from the Pohl Collection from Jean Arp to the Present
)
on view until
February 15, 2026
. The exhibition takes as its starting point works by Jean Arp (1886–1966) from the Pohl Collection, shown to the public for the first time. Among the featured artists are
Arik Levy, Nevin Aladağ,
Michael Sailstorfer, Jean Arp, Julius Bissier, Georges Braque, Tony Cragg, Gregor Hildebrandt, David Renggli,
and
Günther Uecker
.
The sculptures and reliefs exemplify how the German-French artist developed his abstract visual language inspired by natural “constellations” — such as celestial bodies, clouds, or stones. In dialogue with these works, contemporary artists who continue Arp’s engagement with nature—both thematically and formally—are also presented. Their works are characterized by organic, irregular, and fluid forms that evoke natural movement.
As a co-founder of Dadaism and a pioneer of modern abstract art,
Jean Arp
continues to influence contemporary art today. Through selected works from the Pohl Collection, the exhibition highlights the artist’s distinctive visual language and central themes, showing how these resonate in art up to the present day.
Arp’s fascination with nature and its ever-changing forms—used as the foundation of his artistic process—becomes visible here. This approach is reinterpreted in the works of contemporary artists who transform natural shapes through modern materials such as
Corten steel
or
vinyl records
, creating new perspectives on form and transformation.
Jean Arp’s exploration of nature, its continuous evolution, and its connection to artistic creation clearly echo in the works of younger generations. At the same time, these contemporary interpretations question today’s notions of “naturalness” and critically examine humanity’s relationship with nature in the modern age.
October 17, 2025
RELATED ARTIST
NEVİN ALADAĞ
PREVIOUS
|
Next
18
of 134