URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/news/123-7th-berliner-herbstsalon-e-imagine-the-red-house-opens/
Snapshot: 20260516043033

The Maxim Gorki Theatre in Berlin opened the
7th Berliner Herbstsalon
on October 2, 2025, under the title
“ЯE:IMAGINE: THE RED HOUSE – INVENTORIES/INTERVENTIONS/INVENTIONS.”
Initiated by Shermin Langhoff and held biennially at the Maxim Gorki Theatre, the Berliner Herbstsalon this year features over 100 works by around 60 artists, including
Nevin Aladağ
and
Daniel Knorr
.
Nevin Aladağ participates with her work
“Laufer” (2001/2025)
, while Daniel Knorr presents two pieces:
“Stolen History – Statue of Liberty” (2011)
and
“Piggy Banks” (2025)
. Works from the previous six Herbstsalons have been recontextualized for this special exhibition, alongside new additions. The salon invites artists to explore personal and societal histories, reconsider the past, and imagine possibilities for the future.
The exhibition also includes works by artists featured in the Gorki Theatre’s
RE:IMAGINE 100 + 10
program earlier this year, such as
Astghik Melkonyan
and
Atom Egoyan
. Participating artists include Nevin Aladağ, Züli Aladağ, Mehtap Baydu, Miraz Bezar, Cana Bilir-Meier, Danica Dakić, Zehra Doğan, Can Dündar, Hiwa K, Gülsün Karamustafa, Emine Sevgi Özdamar, Ülkü Süngün, Nasan Tur, Hale Tenger, Serpil Yeter, Zelimir Zilnik, and many others. The exhibition spans multiple venues within the Gorki Theatre, including Palais am Festungsgraben, the Gorki Kiosk, and outdoor spaces.
The salon opened on the Gorki main stage with the
world premiere of Ersan Mondtag’s production “Das Rote Haus”
on October 2. The play is based on the stories of Turkish women who arrived in Berlin during the 1960s and 70s and lived in the Telefunken company dormitory. The building, which later became the Maxim Gorki Theatre, was also home to the Sing-Akademie, the first choral society where men and women sang together, and has played a historically significant role in Berlin.
This edition of the salon marks
Shermin Langhoff’s final Berliner Herbstsalon
as artistic director of the Gorki Theatre, offering an opportunity to reflect on the critical art practices, struggles, and acts of resistance that have shaped the past twelve years.
“ЯE:IMAGINE: THE RED HOUSE”
will be on view until
November 30, 2025.
October 8, 2025
RELATED ARTISTS
NEVİN ALADAĞ
DANIEL KNORR
ERSAN MONDTAG
PREVIOUS
|
Next
22
of 134