URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/artists/61-yusa-yalcintas/overview/
Snapshot: 20250621020205

View works.
VIEW WORKS
Yuşa Yalçıntaş
shapes his art across a wide spectrum, from the traces of the past to the social and cultural structure of the present. In his works, created using the drawing rules he developed, elements related to children’s book illustrations, play and ritual themes, and aspects of the modern Turkish educational system are prominently featured. These elements disturb the perception of time and space within the artist’s works, inviting the viewer to a non-linear perspective. Drawing inspiration from traditional forms such as miniature and Medieval Western art, Yalçıntaş offers the viewer a “non-real” viewpoint.
In the artist’s works, imaginary scenes filled with child figures create a theatrical atmosphere. Each figure becomes a part of these encrypted games and rituals with its own role and function. Yuşa Yalçıntaş defines these compositions as “ritual” and “play,” inviting the viewer to participate in the conscious games revolving around these children. In this world, everything has a meaning and function, but these meanings are not always explicitly explained. By drawing the viewer into ambiguity and curiosity, the artist enables them to explore the symbolic depth of the rituals played by the children.
The uncertainty of time and space in Yuşa Yalçıntaş’s works transforms art into a realm of discovery. The scenes in his paintings are not merely quotes from the past, future, or present; they are perhaps a combination of all these. This approach aligns with the geometric patterns the artist uses in his attempt to understand the universe, incorporating the concept of “Sacred Geometry.” In his works, he creates passages between the earthly and spiritual realms, drawing the viewer into a quest for meaning.
Yuşa Yalçıntaş was born on August 19, 1985, in Istanbul. He began his education in the Painting Department of the Faculty of Fine Arts at Marmara University in 2005 and, after studying the Printmaking Department at Kuvataideakatemia, Finland, from 2009 to 2010, he completed his education in 2011.
Yalçıntaş’s works have been featured in numerous important galleries and events internationally. Selected exhibitions include:
Young Masters Art Prize 10th Anniversary Exhibition
, La Galleria Royal Opera Arcade, London (2019);
Yuka
(Solo), Pi Artworks Istanbul (2018);
Causa Sui
(Solo), Pi Artworks Istanbul (2016);
Genç Koleksiyonerler
, Elgiz Museum, Istanbul (2014);
Dialog: Art from Turkey
, Viennafair, Vienna (2012); and
Destroy Istanbul
, Neurotitan Gallery, Berlin (2011). In 2019, he won the Young Masters Art Prize 10th Anniversary Award in London.
Yuşa Yalçıntaş lives and works in Istanbul.
Download Artist's CV
(PDF, opens in a new tab.)