URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/exhibitions/40-richard-wilson-mekani-baskalastirmak-pilevneli-dolapdere/press_release_text/
Snapshot: 20260218052324

TRAPS - VERSION 3/5, 2014
VIEW WORKS
RICHARD WILSON
“Stealing Space”
PILEVNELI | Dolapdere
October 27 - December 5, 2021
PILEVNELI
is pleased to announce the first exhibition in Turkey of British artist Richard Wilson. The exhibition entitled
“Stealing Space
” will be on view between October 27 - December 5, 2021 at PILEVNELI Dolapdere.
"I need that initial thing from the real world because I’ve always been concerned with the way you can alter someone’s perception, knock their view off kilter. And to do that I need to start with something we think we understand”.
Quoted in ‘Richard Wilson’ by Simon Morrissey, Tate Publishing, 2005, P 7
For over 40 years, Richard Wilson has realized many major museum exhibitions as well as public works worldwide in countries as diverse as Japan, the United States, Brazil, Mexico, Russia, Australia, and a number of European countries. He was one of a select number of artists invited to create a major public work for The Millennium Dome and the only British artist invited to participate in Echigo-Tsumari Art Triennial in 2000 in Japan. In 2006 he was elected as a member of the Royal Academy and in 2008 was awarded an Honorary Doctorate at the University of Middlesex in UK.
Wilson's commissioned contribution to Liverpool’s European Capital of Culture in 2008, entitled Turning the Place Over, comprised a vast oval section of a front side of a building that rotated three-dimensionally on a spindle. His regional cultural Olympic exhibition, Hang on a Minute Lads, I've got a Great Idea, at the De La Warr Pavilion, in Bexhill, UK in 2012 had a hydraulically teetering replica bus from the movie “The Italian Job” positioned at the edge of the roof of the building. He opened Slipstream, a major commission for Heathrow's Terminal 2 in April 2014, and also with the same title as at PILEVNELI,
Stealing Space
, a major solo show at Annely Juda Gallery in London was displayed in 2017.
Interfering with the architectural space and inspired by the disciplines of construction and engineering
, the exhibition features eight sculptures, one installation, nine drawings, five prints and three wall collages.
Wilson’s projects have generated universal critical acclaim. His seminal installation “20:50”, comprised of a sea of reflective sump oil in which the gallery space is filled to waist height with recycled engine oil, also from which the installation takes its name from which will be shown at
PILEVNELI
. A walkway leads from a single entrance, leading the viewer into the space until they are surrounded by oil on all sides. The impenetrable, reflective surface of the oil mirrors the architecture of the room exactly, placing the viewer at the mid-point of a symmetrical visual plane. Formerly in the Saatchi Collection and now permanently installed at Mona in Tasmania, this work was described as “one of the masterpieces of the modern age” by art critic Andrew Graham Dixon in the BBC television series The History of British Art.
Richard Wilson's solo exhibition titled "
Stealing Space
" can be visited at
PILEVNELI
Tuesday through Saturday between 10:00 am – 6:00 pm.
RELATED ARTIST
RICHARD WILSON
BACK TO PAST EXHIBITIONS