URL: https://www.pilevneli.com/artists/25-erdogan-zumrutoglu/overview/
Snapshot: 20251208185419

View works.
VIEW WORKS
Erdoğan Zümrütoğlu was born on November 13, 1970 in Konya. He took a break from his education at Dokuz Eylul University, Faculty of Fine Arts, Painting and lived and worked in France, Belgium and The Netherlands for two years. He completed his studies in 1996 and moved to Berlin in 2010 where he set up his second studio.
The abstract expressionism in Zümrütoğlu’s works are evident in the figurative, movement and spatial elements. Having developed a unique style at a very early age with his gestural  figurative paintings that he shaped with striking abstract elements, the artist, spontaneously transferring them to the canvas, blends his works with literature, music and philosophy. The most important elements that make up his style are the impressive depths in his paintings, the energetic brush movements that appear instantly, and the forms that are fighting for existence on his large canvases. The influence of sound and music in his canvases is hidden in the atonal harmony of the partially manifested figures and the concealed plot. These figures are often composed of bodily images, portraits, skeletons that look as if they are about to jump from the frame onto the viewer. While questioning the context, the world and the agenda in which he himself as well as humanity resides, his works draw the viewer in and render a dialogue with the painting inevitable, evoking a common, inexplicable feeling for all viewers.
Another point that cannot be overlooked in Erdoğan Zümrütoğlu’s works is the perception of space and time which gives the feeling that they are transferred from within a mystical frame. In his paintings, the concept of ‘entity’ and ‘existence’ on a time-space plane can be explored in the composition, and figures, and come into being three-dimensionally with his recent ceramic sculptural works.
The artist currently lives and works in Istanbul and Berlin.
Download Artist's CV
(PDF, opens in a new tab.)